when Elif as the temanite answered can a
man be profitable to God though he who
is wise may be profitable to himself
is it any pleasure to the Almighty that
you are righteous or is it gain to him
that you make your ways blameless is it
because of your fear of him that he
corrects you and enters into judgment
with you is not your wickedness great
and your iniquity without end for you
have taken pleasures from your brother
for no reason and stripped the naked of
their clothing you have not given the
weary water to drink and you have
withheld bread from the hungry but the
mighty man possessed the land and the
honorable man dwells in it you have sent
widows away empty and the strength of
the fatherless was crushed
therefore snares are all around you and
sudden fear troubles you or darkness so
that you cannot see and an abundance of
water covers you is not God in the
height of heaven and see the highest
stars how lofty they are and you say
what does God know can he judge through
the deep darkness thick clouds cover him
so that he cannot see and he walks above
the circle of heaven will you keep to
the old way which wicked men have trod
who were cut down before that time whose
foundations were swept away by a flood
they said to God depart from us what can
the Almighty do to them yet he filled
their houses with good things but the
counsel of the wicked is far from me the
righteous see it and are glad and the
innocent laugh at them surely our
adversaries are cut down and the fire
consumes their remnant now acquaint
yourself with him and be at peace there
by good will come to you receive please
instruction from his mouth and lay up
his words in your heart
if you return to the Almighty you will
be built up you will remove iniquity far
from your tents then you will lay your
gold in the dust and the gold of Ophir
among the stones of the Brooks yes the
Almighty will be your gold and your
precious silver for then you will have
your delight in the Almighty and lift up
your face to God you will make your
prayer to him he will hear you and you
will pay your vows
you will also declare a thing and it
will be established for you so light
will shine on your ways when they cast
you down and you say exaltation will
come then he will save the humble person
he will even deliver one who is not
innocent yes he will be delivered by the
purity of your hands
[Music]